# VCU-Futures-Pricing-Model
A Novel Approach To Modelling Voluntary Carbon Credit Prices Using A Two Sector Schumpeterian Growth Model And A Jump-Diffusion Process.

The voluntary carbon market can play a vital role for the transition towards a greener economy and achieving the Paris Agreement goals by increasing funding into investments related to halting climate change. For the market to reach its full potential, however, understanding the underlying dynamics driving the price of reference voluntary carbon credits will be crucial, both for solidifying confidence in the market, and attracting the necessary liquidity providers which will be needed for its operation at a large scale. In the paper I formulate a hypothesis regarding the price evolution of voluntary carbon credits. The contribution is based on linking the expected returns of a reference voluntary carbon credit to the R&D sector and implementing the result using a jump-diffusion model to capture jumps in prices driven from news releases concerning the market. The model simulation suggests improved fit compared to a pure jump-diffusion model when optimized to real voluntary carbon credit price data and provides potential insight on the underlying dynamics of the trends evident in the market.

The model introduced is fundamentally based on one core idea. The main source of demand for voluntary carbon credits originates from institutions trying to meet their emission commitments. There is two ways in which institutions can reduce their claimed net carbon emissions which are assumed to be equivalent. Namely, directly reducing these emissions from their operations, with methods such as supply chain management, efficiency improvements in their production process etc, and the purchasing and retirement of carbon offsets. Both methods are costly. Direct reduction of emissions in the production process will require R&D expenditure, with the most prominent example which can be used to display this being petroleum/oil companies investing heavily in research and development of greener methods of operations and products. Carbon offsets on the other hand, have a set price which must be paid for them to be acquired. Since these are two distinct ways of achieving a theoretically identical outcome by the end buyer, the costliness of both methods should be fundamentally interlinked in some way. Further, in a perfectly efficient market, I propose that the cost of these two methods should be identical. This is simply an extrapolation of the efficient market hypothesis. To be more specific, if we assume perfect transparency and quality of carbon credits, an institution attempting to reduce their net carbon footprint would simply choose the most cost-effective way of doing so. If for example carbon offsets are relatively cheaper than R&D, then rational agents should drive up demand for these credits, consequently arbitraging away their cost-efficiency in the process until the prices of these two solutions equalise.

The choice of R&D expenditure has been deeply explored with Schumpeterian growth model literature. An extension of this model will be used as the starting point following Bezin, 2019, with further modification. From this, I will derive the change in the relative profit between the “clean” and “dirty” sectors for a change in the relative R&D expenditure of these two sectors. This will be assumed to be the expected return of reference carbon credit contracts. The price evolution of these credits will be modelled as a jump diffusion process, introduced by Merton 1976, and following the version deployed by Song Et al., 2019, but having the expected return parameter be replaced with the equation described above. Three additional modifications of the final price evolution equation will also be included for comparison. This will include the original model but modelled as a pure diffusion process (excluding jumps). Additionally, standard pure diffusion and jump diffusion models will be simulated for which the expected carbon return is not based on economic model developed in the paper. These models will all be simulated using Monte Carlo, and, deploying the Powell method, optimized based on real carbon-credit data. 
